README.md, before:

# Support_BuildableSnow
> Modifiable terrain-like snow.

## <a name="how-it-works"></a>How It Works

Basically, it maintains a grid of vertices and a grid of bricks.  Four vertices make up a "tile".  The "tiles" in this case are bricks.

Each brick has four vertices:
  1. Top left corner of the brick.
  2. Top right corner of the brick.
  3. Bottom left corner of the brick.
  4. Bottom right corner of the brick.

Each vertex has only two heights: `0` or `1`.

Each snow brick datablock corresponds to a certain configuration of four vertex heights.

Any time a brick is updated, it checks its four vertex heights and attempts to set its
datablock to the appropriate one.  If it successfully changes its datablock, it updates
its immediate neighbors.

See the source code for [`fxDTSBrick::setSnowVertices()`](https://github.com/Electrk/Support_BuildableSnow/blob/master/snowVertices.cs) and [`fxDTSBrick::updateSnow()`](https://github.com/Electrk/Support_BuildableSnow/blob/master/updateSnow.cs) to see how this works.

## <a name="api"></a>API

#### <a name="api-create-grid"></a>`BuildableSnow_CreateGrid (width, length, height[, useAsync[, asyncCallback]]);`

Creates the WxLxH grid of snow bricks, either synchronously or asynchronously.

| Argument | Type |  Description  | Default Value |
| -------- | ---- | ------------- | ------------- |
| width  | integer | | | |
| length | integer | | | |
| height | integer | | | |
| useAsync | boolean | _(Optional)_  Use async method of creating the grid using schedules.  Calls `asyncCallback` when finished. | false |
| asyncCallback | string | _(Optional)_  Function to call when grid creation is done. | |

##

#### <a name="api-destroy-grid"></a>`BuildableSnow_DestroyGrid ([useAsync[, asyncCallback]]);`

Destroys the snow grid, either synchronously or asynchronously.

| Argument | Type |  Description  | Default Value |
| -------- | ---- | ------------- | ------------- |
| useAsync | boolean | _(Optional)_  Use async method of destroying the grid using schedules.  Calls `asyncCallback` when finished. | false |
| asyncCallback | string | _(Optional)_  Function to call when grid destruction is done. | |

##

#### <a name="api-raise-snow"></a>`fxDTSBrick::raiseSnow ();`

Flattens brick if it's not already; raises snow brick above if it is.

**Returns**  [`BuildableSnowError`](#error-handling)

##

#### <a name="api-lower-snow"></a>`fxDTSBrick::lowerSnow ();`

Lowers snow, provided there's no snow above this brick.

**Returns**  [`BuildableSnowError`](#error-handling)

##

#### <a name="api-set-snow-vertices"></a> `fxDTSBrick::setSnowVertices (topLeft, topRight, bottomLeft, bottomRight);`

Sets the brick's snow vertex data.

Please note that this does not update the brick's datablock.  You'll normally want to use this function in conjunction with [`fxDTSBrick::updateSnow()`]("#api-update-snow") afterward.

| Argument | Type |  Description  |
| -------- | ---- | ------------- |
| topLeft | boolean | Height of the brick's top left vertex (only supports 0 or 1). |
| topRight | boolean | Height of the brick's top right vertex (only supports 0 or 1). |
| bottomLeft | boolean | Height of the brick's bottom left vertex (only supports 0 or 1). |
| bottomRight | boolean | Height of the brick's bottom right vertex (only supports 0 or 1). |

**Returns**  [`BuildableSnowError`](#error-handling)

##

#### <a name="api-get-snow-vertices"></a> `fxDTSBrick::getSnowVertices ();`

Gets the actual snow vertex data.

Since the brick's datablock does not always correspond with the actual vertex data for aesthetic purposes, we want to be able to accurately get the vertex data.

**Returns**  `BuildableSnowVertices` or `null`

A string with the vertices separated by a space in this order: top left, top right, bottom left, bottom right.

Or if there was an error, it will return an empty string (null).

##

#### <a name="api-update-snow"></a> `fxDTSBrick::updateSnow ();`

Updates snow brick datablock and, if needed, surrounding neighbors.

**Returns**  [`BuildableSnowError`](#error-handling)

##

#### <a name="api-update-snow-neighbors"></a> `fxDTSBrick::updateSnowNeighbors ();`

Updates adjacent neighbor snow bricks.

**Returns**  [`BuildableSnowError`](#error-handling)

##

#### <a name="api-get-brick"></a> `BuildableSnow_GetBrick (x, y, z);`

Gets a brick at grid (x, y, z).

**Returns**  `fxDTSBrick` or `-1`

If a brick cannot be found, it returns `-1`

##

#### <a name="api-grid-to-world"></a> `BuildableSnow_GridToWorld (x, y, z);`

Converts a grid position to an actual world position.

**Returns**  `Vector3D`

##

#### <a name="api-is-valid-grid-pos"></a> `BuildableSnow_isValidGridPos (x, y, z);`

Checks whether (x, y, z) is a valid grid position.

**Returns**  `boolean`

##

#### <a name="api-get-snow-neighbor"></a> `fxDTSBrick::getSnowNeighbor (x, y, z);`

Gets the brick at the position (x, y, z) relative to this brick, if any.

**Returns**  `fxDTSBrick` or `-1`

If a brick cannot be found, it returns `-1`

##

#### <a name="api-has-snow-neighbor"></a> `fxDTSBrick::hasSnowNeighbor (x, y, z);`

Whether or not there's a brick at the position (x, y, z) relative to this brick.

**Returns**  `boolean`

##

#### <a name="api-has-empty-snow-spot"></a> `fxDTSBrick::hasEmptySnowSpot (x, y, z);`

Whether or not there's an empty spot at the position (x, y, z) relative to this brick.  "Empty spot" meaning either an empty snow brick, or the lack of a brick.

**Returns**  `boolean`

## <a name="error-handling">Error Handling

Some functions return a `BuildableSnowError`, which will be one of the following:

| Variable | Description |
| -------- | ----------- |
| $BuildableSnow::Error::None | There was no error and the operation was successful. |
| $BuildableSnow::Error::Generic | Reserved for possible future use.  Currently unused. |
| $BuildableSnow::Error::NotSnowBrick | The brick we're trying to operate on is not a snow brick. |
| $BuildableSnow::Error::HasSnowAbove | The brick we're trying to operate on has snow above it. |
| $BuildableSnow::Error::NoSnowBelow | The brick we're trying to operate on doesn't have the supporting snow required. |

## <a name="configuration-variables">Configuration Variables

This mod was written to be as flexible as possible.  As such, there are many global variables that you can change if you so wish.

If you want to change the snow brick's brick group, color, or angle ID:

| Variable | Description | Default Value |
| -------- | ----------- | ------------- |
| $BuildableSnow::SnowBrickGroup | The brick group to add all snow bricks to. | BrickGroup_888888 |
| $BuildableSnow::SnowColorID | The color ID to set all snow bricks to. | The closest color to "1 1 1 1" |
| $BuildableSnow::SnowAngleID | The angle ID to create all snow bricks with. | 3 |

##

If you want to change the tick rates for async grid creation/destruction:

| Variable | Description | Default Value |
| -------- | ----------- | ------------- |
| $BuildableSnow::CreateGridTickRate | The tick rate of async grid creation in milliseconds. | 0 |
| $BuildableSnow::DestroyGridTickRate | The tick rate of async grid destruction in milliseconds. | 0 |

##

If you want to use custom bricks with this mod, you'll have to change these:

| Variable | Description | Default Value |
| -------- | ----------- | ------------- |
| $BuildableSnow::DataBlock_* | Get a datablock from a certain configuration of vertices.  See [`config.cs`](https://github.com/Electrk/Support_BuildableSnow/blob/master/config.cs) for all of them. | |
| $BuildableSnow::CornerToAdapter_* | A quick way to get a respective adapter brick from corner vertices.  See [`config.cs`](https://github.com/Electrk/Support_BuildableSnow/blob/master/config.cs) for all of them. | |
| $BuildableSnow::DefaultDataBlock | The default datablock to create snow bricks as. | brick_snow_middle_middle_data |

##

If you want to enable debug mode and see error messages:

| Variable | Description | Default Value |
| -------- | ----------- | ------------- |
| $BuildableSnow::DebugMode | Whether or not to print debug messages. | false |

Commit message:

Added insertIntoSnowGrid, .isInSnowGrid property, and 2 new error codes

README.md, after:

# Support_BuildableSnow
> Modifiable terrain-like snow.

## <a name="how-it-works"></a>How It Works

Basically, it maintains a grid of vertices and a grid of bricks.  Four vertices make up a "tile".  The "tiles" in this case are bricks.

Each brick has four vertices:
  1. Top left corner of the brick.
  2. Top right corner of the brick.
  3. Bottom left corner of the brick.
  4. Bottom right corner of the brick.

Each vertex has only two heights: `0` or `1`.

Each snow brick datablock corresponds to a certain configuration of four vertex heights.

Any time a brick is updated, it checks its four vertex heights and attempts to set its
datablock to the appropriate one.  If it successfully changes its datablock, it updates
its immediate neighbors.

See the source code for [`fxDTSBrick::setSnowVertices()`](https://github.com/Electrk/Support_BuildableSnow/blob/master/snowVertices.cs) and [`fxDTSBrick::updateSnow()`](https://github.com/Electrk/Support_BuildableSnow/blob/master/updateSnow.cs) to see how this works.

## <a name="api"></a>API

#### <a name="api-create-grid"></a>`BuildableSnow_CreateGrid (width, length, height[, useAsync[, asyncCallback]]);`

Creates the WxLxH grid of snow bricks, either synchronously or asynchronously.

| Argument | Type |  Description  | Default Value |
| -------- | ---- | ------------- | ------------- |
| width  | integer | | | |
| length | integer | | | |
| height | integer | | | |
| useAsync | boolean | _(Optional)_  Use async method of creating the grid using schedules.  Calls `asyncCallback` when finished. | false |
| asyncCallback | string | _(Optional)_  Function to call when grid creation is done. | |

##

#### <a name="api-destroy-grid"></a>`BuildableSnow_DestroyGrid ([useAsync[, asyncCallback]]);`

Destroys the snow grid, either synchronously or asynchronously.

| Argument | Type |  Description  | Default Value |
| -------- | ---- | ------------- | ------------- |
| useAsync | boolean | _(Optional)_  Use async method of destroying the grid using schedules.  Calls `asyncCallback` when finished. | false |
| asyncCallback | string | _(Optional)_  Function to call when grid destruction is done. | |

##

#### <a name="api-raise-snow"></a>`fxDTSBrick::raiseSnow ();`

Flattens brick if it's not already; raises snow brick above if it is.

**Returns**  [`BuildableSnowError`](#error-handling)

##

#### <a name="api-lower-snow"></a>`fxDTSBrick::lowerSnow ();`

Lowers snow, provided there's no snow above this brick.

**Returns**  [`BuildableSnowError`](#error-handling)

##

#### <a name="api-set-snow-vertices"></a> `fxDTSBrick::setSnowVertices (topLeft, topRight, bottomLeft, bottomRight);`

Sets the brick's snow vertex data.

Please note that this does not update the brick's datablock.  You'll normally want to use this function in conjunction with [`fxDTSBrick::updateSnow()`]("#api-update-snow") afterward.

| Argument | Type |  Description  |
| -------- | ---- | ------------- |
| topLeft | boolean | Height of the brick's top left vertex (only supports 0 or 1). |
| topRight | boolean | Height of the brick's top right vertex (only supports 0 or 1). |
| bottomLeft | boolean | Height of the brick's bottom left vertex (only supports 0 or 1). |
| bottomRight | boolean | Height of the brick's bottom right vertex (only supports 0 or 1). |

**Returns**  [`BuildableSnowError`](#error-handling)

##

#### <a name="api-get-snow-vertices"></a> `fxDTSBrick::getSnowVertices ();`

Gets the actual snow vertex data.

Since the brick's datablock does not always correspond with the actual vertex data for aesthetic purposes, we want to be able to accurately get the vertex data.

**Returns**  `BuildableSnowVertices` or `null`

A string with the vertices separated by a space in this order: top left, top right, bottom left, bottom right.

Or if there was an error, it will return an empty string (null).

##

#### <a name="api-update-snow"></a> `fxDTSBrick::updateSnow ();`

Updates snow brick datablock and, if needed, surrounding neighbors.

**Returns**  [`BuildableSnowError`](#error-handling)

##

#### <a name="api-update-snow-neighbors"></a> `fxDTSBrick::updateSnowNeighbors ();`

Updates adjacent neighbor snow bricks.

**Returns**  [`BuildableSnowError`](#error-handling)

##

#### <a name="api-get-brick"></a> `BuildableSnow_GetBrick (x, y, z);`

Gets a brick at grid (x, y, z).

**Returns**  `fxDTSBrick` or `-1`

If a brick cannot be found, it returns `-1`

##

#### <a name="api-grid-to-world"></a> `BuildableSnow_GridToWorld (x, y, z);`

Converts a grid position to an actual world position.

**Returns**  `Vector3D`

##

#### <a name="api-is-valid-grid-pos"></a> `BuildableSnow_isValidGridPos (x, y, z);`

Checks whether (x, y, z) is a valid grid position.

**Returns**  `boolean`

##

#### <a name="api-get-snow-neighbor"></a> `fxDTSBrick::getSnowNeighbor (x, y, z);`

Gets the brick at the position (x, y, z) relative to this brick, if any.

**Returns**  `fxDTSBrick` or `-1`

If a brick cannot be found, it returns `-1`

##

#### <a name="api-has-snow-neighbor"></a> `fxDTSBrick::hasSnowNeighbor (x, y, z);`

Whether or not there's a brick at the position (x, y, z) relative to this brick.

**Returns**  `boolean`

##

#### <a name="api-has-empty-snow-spot"></a> `fxDTSBrick::hasEmptySnowSpot (x, y, z);`

Whether or not there's an empty spot at the position (x, y, z) relative to this brick.  "Empty spot" meaning either an empty snow brick, or the lack of a brick.

**Returns**  `boolean`

## <a name="error-handling">Error Handling

Some functions return a `BuildableSnowError`, which will be one of the following:

| Variable | Description |
| -------- | ----------- |
| $BuildableSnow::Error::None | There was no error and the operation was successful. |
| $BuildableSnow::Error::Generic | Reserved for possible future use.  Currently unused. |
| $BuildableSnow::Error::NotSnowBrick | The brick we're trying to operate on is not a snow brick. |
| $BuildableSnow::Error::NotInGrid | The brick we're trying to operate on is not in the snow grid. |
| $BuildableSnow::Error::HasSnowAbove | The brick we're trying to operate on has snow above it. |
| $BuildableSnow::Error::NoSnowBelow | The brick we're trying to operate on doesn't have the supporting snow required. |
| $BuildableSnow::Error::InvalidGridPos | The grid position you attempted to use is invalid. |

## <a name="configuration-variables">Configuration Variables

This mod was written to be as flexible as possible.  As such, there are many global variables that you can change if you so wish.

If you want to change the snow brick's brick group, color, or angle ID:

| Variable | Description | Default Value |
| -------- | ----------- | ------------- |
| $BuildableSnow::SnowBrickGroup | The brick group to add all snow bricks to. | BrickGroup_888888 |
| $BuildableSnow::SnowColorID | The color ID to set all snow bricks to. | The closest color to "1 1 1 1" |
| $BuildableSnow::SnowAngleID | The angle ID to create all snow bricks with. | 3 |

##

If you want to change the tick rates for async grid creation/destruction:

| Variable | Description | Default Value |
| -------- | ----------- | ------------- |
| $BuildableSnow::CreateGridTickRate | The tick rate of async grid creation in milliseconds. | 0 |
| $BuildableSnow::DestroyGridTickRate | The tick rate of async grid destruction in milliseconds. | 0 |

##

If you want to use custom bricks with this mod, you'll have to change these:

| Variable | Description | Default Value |
| -------- | ----------- | ------------- |
| $BuildableSnow::DataBlock_* | Get a datablock from a certain configuration of vertices.  See [`config.cs`](https://github.com/Electrk/Support_BuildableSnow/blob/master/config.cs) for all of them. | |
| $BuildableSnow::CornerToAdapter_* | A quick way to get a respective adapter brick from corner vertices.  See [`config.cs`](https://github.com/Electrk/Support_BuildableSnow/blob/master/config.cs) for all of them. | |
| $BuildableSnow::DefaultDataBlock | The default datablock to create snow bricks as. | brick_snow_middle_middle_data |

##

If you want to enable debug mode and see error messages:

| Variable | Description | Default Value |
| -------- | ----------- | ------------- |
| $BuildableSnow::DebugMode | Whether or not to print debug messages. | false |
